Before we mirror this over we should probably take a look at the rotation and the role of these bones
and make sure it's what we want.
So if we tap into edit mode let's select this upper arm bone here and let's come up here to global and
go to normal transform orientation.
And then I'm going to choose the rotate tool.
Okay so now if we hit the end key and come over here to our sidebar we have this role field here.
What we can do is change the role of the bone to place it or arrange it.
So it's the way we want.
So what I usually try and do with this is have the x axis here be the main angle of rotation so what
way is this bone going to mainly turn.
I would say it's going to mainly turn forward and back maybe as he's running or walking.
I don't think the main angle will be up and down.
So I think forward and back is fine for this you can see the x axis is in a position where this would
go forward and back along the x axis let's look at this one here now I think the main angle of rotation
would be for it to bend up at the elbow right.
But currently the z axis is aligned to that particular axis of rotation.
So what I think I'd like to do is maybe go to the front view here and I want to turn this so the x axis
is pointing toward me instead of the Z axis.
So I can come over here to the role field and I can turn this so that x axis is pointing toward me.
All right let's come over here and look at this one here now for this the x axis is going up and down
for the rest and I think that's probably what we want that main axis would be the wrist bending up and
down.
It would also go side to side but I don't think that would be the main axis so let's now take a look
at this bone.
I think we need to turn this if we kind of angle our view so we're looking at this from the top like
this.
I think what I'd like to do is turn that x axis.
So it points up like that let's also take this one and move it like this and this one and let's move
it like this.
There we go.
Let's give this a try.
I'll also do this on the bottom
and we go like this
and here and here.
Now what we can do is actually test this.
We can go into pose mode and see which way these are turning.
So if I come over here to edit dropdown and choose poser mode.
Now this is the mode that the character will actually be animating in.
So if I take say this bone go to the rotate tool and let's just see if we click on the x axis.
It is rotating mainly in the x axis.
There let me look at this one and this one over what I'm seeing is they're all moving in the negative
x.
Let me try this one here.
This one's moving in the positive x and this one's positive.
So I think this is OK yeah.
Let's go with this.
I mean you look at this one it's turning up and down so up is in the positive down as in the negative.
That should be okay.
This one is going to turn this way that's good.
And this one is going to turn this way.
Good.
Okay.
I think that's gonna work.
Let's go back to edit mode now and let's select this bone down here and let's take a look at this.
Now the x axis is pointing to the side here but these look like they're okay so let's change this one
I'm going to go to the front view here and let's click and drag on the roll and let's change this one
here like this.
There we go.
Now if we go back to post mode we can turn these.
Let's take this yeah.
That's going positive and negative.
That's good.
Negative.
Positive.
Yeah.
I think these are gonna work.
Everything's moving in the x axis just fine and once again I'm in the normal transformation orientation
here as I do this.
All right.
So let's go back to edit mode now and the next thing we should do is mirror these over.
Now before I do that I'd like to see all the names here in the viewport of the bones.
And to do that we can come over here to the Object data panel and we can click on names and there we
go we can see the names in our viewport.
Now let me hit the Z key.
Here you can see him better here.
So we have all the names in place for the left side of the rig and the center torso.
We need to mirror these over now.
So let's begin with the legs down here.
Let's move the cursor into the center of the grid with shift s cursor to world origin.
And then I'm gonna go through and select all of these bones.
Here and I want to make sure that I'm using the 3d cursor as my pivot point here you can see that there
may change back to Global transforms.
Now what this do is duplicate this chain and then mirror it in the x axis.
And when we do it should mirror around this point here around our our pivot point our 3d cursor.
So I'll press shift D and enter and then I'll press control M control M and then I'll hit the X key
to mirror in the x axis and then I'll hit enter and there we go.
So now we have our chain over here but we need to deal with our names.
Well we can do is right click on the chain there and then go to names and we can choose flip names and
when we do that you can see we've got up leg dot our low leg dot are et cetera.
However this 0 0 1 is still there.
And that really shouldn't be I think this is a beta version issue that they haven't fixed yet in version
two point seven nine and earlier when you flipped the names it would change the L to R and then it would
also remove the 0 0 1.
So I think they still need to work on that but we can always come over here and do it the old fashioned
way manually select each one of these and remove that dot 0 0 1 out of the name.
That's not a problem we can do that there.
And this one here so I would imagine in a future version that will be cleaned up.
All right let's try that again with the arm and the hand.
So I'll just select all of these bones here like that and then let's do the same thing.
Let's press shift D and enter and then analysts press control M and the X key and that will mirror those
over to the other side and then I'll hit enter and then right click names flip names and then we got
to go through and take away the 0 0 1 for each one of these so I will do that before the next video.
And at that time will parent the arms and the legs to the main torso here and then we'll try and bind
the character mesh to the armature.